suppose you had a conversation with
another human being who told you no no I
don't use paper because I have too much
respect for the Bears what do you mean
you might say in reply why why would
your relationship with bears why would
your concern about the welfare and
well-being of bears prevent you from
using a piece of paper well you see in
order to make paper human beings cut
down forests and that deprives bears of
their habitat so if I'm concerned about
harm and well-being for bears how can I
possibly use a piece of paper now this
conversation be understandable if you
were talking to a five-year-old what if
you're talking to a fully grown adult
with a university degree in philosophy
who is a leader in the vegan movement
what if this excuse or concern is being
employed in the context of justifying
the use of makeup that contains animal
products purchasing leather boots and
shoes once every few years eating and
consuming animal products from time to
time while still using the name vegan
that's that's preposterous you say
nobody would be stupid enough to say
that or if someone did it must be some
very obscure and minor and trivial
figure in the movement well no it's not
it's with a heavy heart once again that
I have to criticize two of the most
influential idiots in the vegan movement
in the year 2018 on natural vegan and
vegan gains they're both idiots this has
been a contest of stupid versus dumb and
it's impossible for me to say which one
is better
or which one is worse
because they're both awful what is the
difference between refusing to use palm
oil and refusing to use olive oil what
is the difference between a palm tree
that produces a fruit that you crush to
make oil and a palm tree that produces
dates that you pick wash package and eat
they all destroy animal habitat to a
large extent they even destroy the same
animal's habitat but hashtag speciesism
even if it's not the same type of
primate it's not the same orangutan it's
not the same species of monkey or what
have you that's being put out of house
and home even if you're comparing bears
to monkeys to camels to orangutans as
vegans we're at least supposed to care
about all large primates that have eyes
and complex brains just about equally so
it's not you can say always only
orangutans we care about it's not the
other types of monkeys and this of it
it's completely laughably deeply morally
incoherent and have any of you guys even
seen a palm tree have you seen one of
these palm trees that produces the fruit
crushed to make oil have you walked
around a grove you can look it up on
YouTube and have beautiful detailed
videos of people walking around a grove
of these trees the type of palm trees
that make the fruit crush soil it's
gorgeous it's beautiful it's not nature
it's not a forest it's not the
wilderness neither is a grove of olive
oil trees neither is a commercially
maintained forest that's cut down for
the pulp and paper industry that's
planted and replanted and cut down to
make pulp and paper that's turned into
newspaper newsprint booklet booklets
wood out what have you okay and yes
cutting down one type of forest or even
you
maintaining it as a crop is going to
impact bears the other is going to
impact monkeys orangutan or what have
you
what is so fundamentally stupid about a
grown adult claiming that they refuse to
buy paper because they want to help the
Bears is that even if everyone joined
you in your moronic mission to eliminate
paper from your daily life it would not
help a single bear ten million people
can go back to using chalkboards we can
give up the modern convenience we've
come to rely on of the paper booklet we
can give up reading books entirely we
can communicate by Braille H into stone
and it won't help even one bear because
the forest you're talking about that's
now growing trees to be made into paper
will instead switch to growing another
profitable crop or commodity it won't be
turned back into bear habitat never why
why is it palm oil and not maple syrup
why don't you tell me maple syrup is
murder think of the think of the elk
think of the deer think of the moose
think of the bears think of the huge
forests being cut down both to create
the wood that's burned to boil away the
maple syrup you don't know the process
look it up and the trees that directly
produce the SAP there are two types of
forests that are maintained for this one
of which is chopped down and one of
which is maintained more long term just
to produce maple syrup because if
everyone not just vegans if all the
meat-eaters decide it's a moral
obscenity to buy paper or to buy maple
syrup that land will not revert to the
wilderness in Indonesia in Thailand in
Cambodia in Laos if it's not profitable
to grow one type of palm tree that
produces oil
they will grow another type of palm tree
quite possibly date palms and I have
never heard a vegan argue that for
ethical reasons you shouldn't eat dates
because you have to cut down a [ __ ]
forest in the first place to plant the
dates you idiots if we all stop eating
dates they'll grow something else if you
want to help the Bears or help the
orangutans you have to do something
positive you can't just keep doing
something negative like looking at your
fringe and saying what can I subtract to
make the world a better place it's
moronic especially if it is for the
animals that's the biggest joke of all
here and honestly I don't think any
vegans are smart enough to be laughing
in I only the meat eaters are smart
enough to make fun of us for it nobody
realizes how absurd this is major
leaders in the vegan movement both of
them are wrong on this vegan gains
Richard and unnatural vegan Swayze [ __ ]
sooner why I don't know you'd have to do
the math you have to figure out how much
harm and suffering is caused by palm oil
you'd you have to I I really haven't
looked into it but you are willing to
accept the excuse that someone who's
vegan can keep on calling themselves
vegan while eating for chocolate bars
and a few donuts and buying leather
boots and using makeup with animal
products you said buying several
containers once every couple of months
so what much it takes and they can still
be vegan and that's fine that's moral
and positive and good and we should all
applaud that and appreciate that ok
what is the moral difference with the
same plot of land if it stops being oil
palms and starts being date palms
what is the difference I lived in this
climate I was engaged in humanitarian
work and research of being out on those
farms what is the
moral difference between a palm oil
plantation and a rubber plantation
they're both plantations neither one
provides habitat for monkeys or
orangutan or bears they provide money
for human beings who try to exploit that
land as economically efficiently as
possible and the reason why palm oil is
so popular is that it is one of the most
economically efficient crops on the
planet compared to any other oil crop
it's mind-blowing it's one of the
reasons people can do it in terms of
biodiesel and fuel to replace gasoline
that has not worked out but there's been
a lot of studies there was hope from
ecologist in the past that we can make
some kind of transition like that okay
look at the same piece of land covered
with palm trees growing oil versus a
plantation growing rubber versus a
plantation growing dates
what is the ethical difference now let's
look at the same piece of land that's
keeping cows in captivity from the day
they are born till the day they die on a
concrete floor under a steel shed with a
human hand that's inserted in their anus
periodically so a needle is inserted in
the vagina to artificially inseminate
them to keep them constantly pregnant to
produce milk so that a vegan like kal-el
can eat a chocolate bar and have popcorn
at a movie theater do you do you see an
ethical difference to what's happening
with that piece of land an ethical
difference and an ecological difference
and in a palm oil plantation where would
you rather take your kids for a [ __ ]
picnic you'd rather go to the palm oil
plantations are beautiful there olive
oil plantations are gorgeous okay
sitting down in a dairy farm and
watching the slow-motion atrocity going
on around you and the stench
the filth and the runoff and the the poo
and the urine and the flies and the
hormones hang in the air and the misery
and the moans of the cattle even the
human component what it does to the
employees what they do with their lives
compared to being someone that gathers
fruit from the vines of a the vines of a
tree or whatever the branches of a tree
is the case maybe you don't you don't
think this is a significant difference
then why are you vegan in what sense are
these people vegan in this same context
and unchallenged by vegan gains
unnatural vegan Swasey unnatural vegan
said so casually that scientifically
she's not even sure if insects are
sentient she said that insects probably
aren't sentient anyway sentient I do not
think she even knows the meaning of the
word sentient talking about a be talking
about an ant we're talking about animals
that you can put under an x-ray under an
MRI under a scanning electron microscope
and see what a fabulously complex brain
they have animals with huge eyes with
complex behaviors social behaviors
exploration mapping communication proven
use of language animals that engage in
warfare one tribe of ants going to war
with another tribe which is beautiful
and I don't know deeply disturbing to
witness by the way if you see ants going
to war with one another it's been
written about for centuries - I think
we've gone back to ancient texts but I
remember Henry David Thoreau trying to
write poetically but witnessing the war
of the ants and his little patch of
forest okay
amazingly complex behaviors and I see
proof of language and you're questioning
sentience you're not questioning whether
or not they can dream you're not
questioning whether that they have
imagination
you're questioning their sentience as a
vegan making excuses for kal-el's use of
makeup that has the bodies of crushed-up
insects in it to make its shade of red a
little bit more appealing there are meat
eaters who will tell you with complete
conviction that they think chickens are
not sentient and it's laughable for the
same reason sentience is not
intelligence it's not higher cognitive
ability sentience just means they feel
and perceive the world around them
period if you can hold up the color red
and hold up the color white and the
animal reacts differently you can hold
up a mirror there are all kinds of
simple tests that's all it takes
that sentience the hurdle for sentience
is incredibly low if they feel or
perceive the world and react to stimuli
that's it you've got sentience bees and
ants basically anything we can perceive
as insects as human beings there is no
scientific debate about whether or not
they're sent yet shame on you a natural
vegan for using the same [ __ ]
excuses that meat eaters use for killing
chickens and for killing fish and in
these cases there is no difference it is
just it's easy to prove or disprove bird
intelligence ants and bee intelligence
there's there is no difference here and
to my knowledge vegan gains and others
nobody else confront her there's nobody
else called her on this and this is yet
another example of her using quote
unquote science made up off the top of
her head pulled out of her ass complete
lies to justify her momentary
hypocritical convenience is is kal-el
that good-looking
like you know I have double standards
too I always I always disagree with
Isaac about this I disagree this is sure
I have I have double standards
I treat good-looking women differently
than you know ugly and repulsive women
are just kind of I do you know I'm
self-critical about it but like
unnatural vegan who are you trying to
[ __ ] that you stoop so low
and tell these lies so that this [ __ ]
can rub the color red on her cheeks with
the mushed up bodies of dead animals so
she can wear a pair of boots that she
thinks are cute if you were in love with
her if you were dating her I can
understand you wanting to make those
excuses but the most basic minimum
demand veganism makes on you is that we
stop making those excuses for others we
love and we stop making those excuses
for ourselves that we answered us some
kind of higher standard here unnatural
vegan I don't know who you are trying to
[ __ ] you are [ __ ] up the movement you
have somehow slid into a position of
power and influence ear with no wit and
no charm and nothing to offer but one
banal product review of another of vegan
butter and vegan ice cream and this
garbage if you sincerely don't know that
ants and bees are sentient why would you
employ it as an excuse in this context
why wouldn't there just be a little bit
of hesitancy in you to Google this or
have some kind of precautionary
principle rather than condemning of what
but I mean I can't even ii am condemning
insects to death i guess it's it's the
same basis that you condemn the cows to
death at the leather boots are minimal
you fundamentally just do not give a
[ __ ] well ok veganism to this it's a
movement for people who give a [ __ ] and
you know i sympathize with the tendency
even if it's irrational on the other
side i sympathize with the
perfectionistic tendency to want to
throw out all the palm
in your kitchen because you think that's
how you can make the world a better
place but the tragedy is you can't to
make the world a better place you have
to take positive action you have to go
to your government and lobby and say
government I need you to draw a line on
the map and say bear habitat and we need
to get rid of all the farms and all the
economic exploitation you need to be
devoted to helping the Bears and in
Indonesia or Cambodia we need to draw a
square in the map and say hey this is a
special place that's just monkey habitat
or just orangutan habitat this is a
national park that's what will actually
help those animals survive they're never
gonna be helped by you throwing out palm
oil and buying olive oil instead if you
regard that as evil it's the same evil
this is a completely ineffectual e a
completely ineffectual morally
incoherent pseudo philosophy the ethics
of intention argument offered by vegan
gains does not work I've engaged that
before
when Gary France aione tried to use it
it's nonsense
tragically the ethics of harm reduction
argument that unnatural vegan offers
also doesn't work and I think that her
approach comes out of a fundamental
reluctance to deal with the tragedy of
human and animal life on earth it's
tragic and disturbing to really realize
that there are millions of cows living
in misery and captivity etc etc but it's
also tragic and disturbing to recognize
intelligence not just sentience
but real reflective intelligence in the
minds of ants and bees and realize that
when we go to build a new house
we will without hesitation destroy ant
colonies and I am think twice about it
that we have such total indifference to
life intelligence and feeling when it
just appears in a form that doesn't have
facial expressions that we can easily
sympathise with
and the deeper tragedy still that
vitiates veganism and I think vidi AIT's
almost every political movement that in
order to do something good you have to
embrace doing harm and very often the
harm is knowable and certain and the
positive outcomes you're pursuing are
very uncertain you have to commit to
starting a war in Vietnam because you're
trying to prevent communism from
carrying out more mass murder such that
a long record of doing all around the
world at that point there were people
who supported the Vietnam War for
sincere well-informed ethical reasons
they were trying to use Swayze's logic
to use this [ __ ] utilitarian logic
they were trying to reduce harm they
were trying to avert suffering and if
you have been alive at that time and you
knew the history of communism from 1917
to 1955 you also might have been one of
those people saying no we can't let this
happen again we have to prevent a
tragedy it's gonna kill millions of
people
guess what the outcomes were the United
States dropped more bombs on Laos Laos
is a tiny country in Southeast Asia the
United States who dropped more bombs on
Laos than they dropped on all of Germany
in World War two more than they dropped
on all of Japan during World War two
more than they dropped on those two
countries combined on a tiny
poverty-stricken country in Southeast
Asia and they still lost the war
the Communists still took over this is
where the logic of harm reduction will
take you it'll take you down that rabbit
hole and they'll take you down the
rabbit hole of trying to throw away all
the paper in your house and all the palm
oil because who are you to impose on the
Bears vegan movement is growing but it's
growing on feet of clay it's on
philosophical foundations that are
rotten and self-contradictory and
laughable and i see that fundamental
stupidity coming out of the best-known
leaders of our movement
whether it's somebody like Gary Fran
Sione who puts on a suit and tie vegan
gains who puts on a wife-beater t-shirt
put shows off his muscles or I don't
know one natural vegan who puts on her
makeup with a trowel and tries to kiss
up to kal-el whatever the hell it is
that's going on there okay we're gonna
find our way forward with this movement
because we have to we don't have a
choice we don't have a better
alternative there's only so much water
and so much land on the planet and we
can reduce our impact in terms of land
use by over 70% by just convincing our
fellow human beings to stop eating beef
that's produced by cows eating soybeans
and directly eat soy beans themselves
etc etc the knock-on effects for
economic efficiency and ecological
outcomes that veganism can offer this is
the most obvious and the most inevitable
political cause in the history of the
world but what we have is a method in
search of a political philosophy that's
the awkward stage that we're at
everybody knows what the diet is
everybody knows how to do it but they
don't know why and they don't know how
to market it to the public yet let me
tell you something making a hypocrite of
yourself making excuses for leather
shoes if they're cute enough or red
lipstick if it's red enough or movie
theater popcorn if it's convenient
enough it's not gonna be the future the
way to earn the respect of the general
public is not going to be to prove that
your principles and convictions are a
goddamn joke